and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm delighted to be joined
by jeff
risley today jeff is the founder of the
cell
sales health alliance the sales health
alliance was created to empower sales
people and leaders
to reach peak levels of sales
performance and well-being
through better mental health jeff
everyone welcome to the show sir how are
you doing
yeah i'm doing well i'm pumped to be
here sam so i appreciate you you
inviting me on and
yeah i'm excited to have this
conversation around a very
uh important topic right now with what's
going on in the world so thank you
definitely man and like you say
especially with everything that we we
know was
always going around in terms of the
environment in terms of where we are in
terms of everything that's thrown
been thrown out of proportion and thrown
out of place thrown out of position with
with covered in the times we're in
i think this is a really important topic
for myself
as well as everyone tuning in and i'm
really excited to chat through in terms
of the tips and
what you're going to share with us today
jeff so
first and foremost in in business and in
sales
why should we really be aware of our
mental health do you think
yeah so if you if you think about it
it's it really drives
everything that we're trying to do from
a business standpoint uh the best way i
can kind of think about it is if you
you know pull apart a business or you
pull apart sales and you get back you
take away the technology you take away
the scripts you take away all of the
coaching
and all of kind of the sales strategies
that we spend all this time
implementing and we we pull that apart
and get right back down to
basic we take it we take a first
principles approach
what we have is essentially we have a
person and we have a person that's
entering a workplace or
selling virtually and it's the health
and well-being of that person that's
going to
drive performance across all of those
different areas all the technologies
we're using all the
sales coaching and strategies like the
execution piece that we
we still we we worry so much about it
all comes down to
how healthy that person is and right now
specifically with the world
in in lockdown for the most part and
selling is primarily virtually
sales really has become a mental game
and the level of mental mistakes that
are being made are
going up due to the increased levels of
anxiety and depression and burnout
so if you think about kind of the health
of the brain
and you know if you think about all
these things we want a good salesperson
to be focused on whether we want them to
be more confident
more energetic more enthusiasm we want
to objection handle negotiate better
it's linear to try and address some of
those things
individually like we provide coaching on
negotiations and objection handling and
those can make meaningful meaningful
impacts on performance but if you think
about it all respect to
the health of the brain so if you can
improve the mental health by one percent
it's going to have an exponential impact
on all of these different areas that
we're trying to improve on a regular
basis so
that's where it's like we need to shift
our conversation and think about how big
an opportunity to have when we think
about the well-being in the mental
health of health for people every day
yes so true i mean when when you're
speaking when i'm speaking to businesses
when i'm speaking to companies often
we'll we'll think about the numbers so
think about the metrics like we need to
be doing
we need to be generating this many leads
or we need to be made doing this many
outreaches by call of our email we need
to make sure we hit this quota
and to do that all our team members need
to be doing x they need to be
doing why we need to do instead but we
never actually think
or certainly i'm guilty of not thinking
about the the actual person there
and actually thinking how how well are
they actually are they okay to do this
today
um are they in a position where they can
do so
yeah i know you're you're totally right
and i think we that's where can we have
a
misconception within how we're managing
quote unquote the health of our sales
pipeline
we have you know we have things like
input metrics that we call so things
like how many dollars are being made how
many emails are being sent
you know what's the conversion rate of
like meetings to demos and
and so forth and they have and then you
have output metrics you know length of
sales cycles amount of revenue being
closed
churn rates and then based off of these
two kind of buckets we say okay
where do we need more training where do
we need more coaching where do we need
more volume metrics but the problem is
if you think about it in reality both of
those categories are actually output
metrics and the real input metrics are
how anxious is the rep did they sleep
well what's their self-esteem like
are they eating right and two when they
encounter stressful situations like
deals falling through getting rejected
missing target do they have the
resilience the eq and the mental health
training to navigate those situations in
a mentally healthy way to start an
upward spiral instead of a downward
spiral
so that's where it's we need to take a
shift backwards and someone in my
linkedin community kind of
helped me create this term it's really
the sales enablement of
well-being where that's where you really
want to focus on the
input metrics the health of the rep
that's going to drive all these output
metrics that we care about
yeah and on that note in your opinion
jeff how
how much would you rate performance if
you could i know this is a bit of a
strange one but if you could say a
percentage
like if um of your health then you
mentioned earlier the health of your
brain your mental well-being
how much of an impact do you think that
actually has on a reps or a business
owner's performance
um so you mentioned like lack of sleep
or things like that so
if i know the amount of times i've woken
up through the lack of sleep
especially with having a young child um
and then trying to do all the tasks
you've got to to do for the day it just
feels like almost twice
twice the work as normal yeah so
still trying like part of what i'm
trying to do is find those organizations
that are open to really measuring
you know what's the if we improve sleep
and if we improve if we lower anxiety
lower burnout what's the direct impact
on
like sales kpis that's something i'm
working on and with with various
organizations right now to actually find
those hard numbers
but at a high level if you think about
workplace mental health in general
there's some really good data out there
already
just looking at for the world health
organization for example they're showing
that every one dollar invested into
scaled-up treatment for common mental
health disorders so think about anxiety
depression burnout in the workplace
there's a four dollar return on
increased productivity
productivity and well-being so that's
crazy like if you think about that just
like
overall let's say those numbers are
accurate and they apply sales
you could potentially forex the
productivity of your team
and i don't know a single sales
enablement technology or
a single sales strategy or coaching
session
that could potentially forex your your
sales team right now so
that's where i see kind of the next five
ten years going forward
um there's really a diminishing returns
on consistently buying new technology to
speed up and improve sales performance
now kind of where i see the biggest
opportunity for organizations to
capitalize on performances
this new idea the sales name of the
well-being the health of health and
mental health of a rep the resilience
training
that's where i see the direction going
for organizations to really start
maximizing and exponentially grow the
performance of their team
yeah and and those are some some mad
numbers but it makes sense right i mean
ultimately if you feel good in yourself
if you feel good health in in your
health your well-being and your your
mental well-being
you're gonna perform right because
you're to you're going to feel upbeat
you're going to feel
positive and so it does make sense i
mean in terms of um
actually checking in so if we've whether
we've got a small team whether we've got
a big team
it to me certainly jeff i i know i'd
feel quite difficult trying
kind of going up to one of my team
members and just saying look how are you
mentally today is is there a way to we
can approach this in a
a friendly manner so we don't sound like
we're we're being blunt and just saying
how he meant how's your mental health
today but we can actually go up to them
as another human be be affectionate be
show that we really care how they're
doing is
is there a strategy or is is it just
like i said then
well it i think it really starts with
leadership it starts with the sales
leaders it starts with the founders the
ceos the vps it starts with
people that are managing and caring for
these teams and
you know when you get into these leader
leadership positions you it's very easy
to start thinking that
we should be less vulnerable we have to
be that superhero and that person is
perfect all the time
when it's actually the the opposite is
true like you know
people want to work for someone who's
vulnerable who's open to sharing so it
really starts with leadership
yeah just start saying you know opening
up sharing their experience with
mental health and sales sharing how
they're feeling on a regular basis
being vulnerable and and going deep with
their team like this is kind of like the
new workplace that we're
especially right now people are looking
to have these conversations what i'm
seeing is like when we have one
conversation with an organization or
mental health and sales it's just like
it's like lighting a match then everyone
is like thank you for creating safe
space we've wanted to have these and you
start learning and building deeper
relationships with each other
um so yeah it starts with leadership for
sure in terms of you know how do you
have these conversations on an ongoing
basis
i think you know when weekly one-on-ones
leaders are always
asking this question of how you doing
this week
like and it's kind of like this vague
question of how you're doing
yeah and very few of us know how to
answer this it's like oh i'm fine or i'm
doing okay or i'm tired this week but
something that's that this really helped
me with you having these conversations
is it really improving
our emotional literacy and right now a
lot of us are emotionally illiterate we
can identify some of the stronger
emotions like anger
or sadness or joy but when we start kind
of trying to
get into kind of more of those
fine-tuning emotions more sensitive
emotions that we we deal with maybe
feeling disconnected from work or
feeling lonely like those are the types
of conversations that you can have so
there's a resource on sales health
alliance that's focused on emotional
literacy that's
essentially a big wheel of emotions and
when you say
how you doing this week i think a good
exercise is for leaders to go first and
say
well here are some of the emotions that
i'm feeling and work on identifying the
different
more unique or sensitive emotions that
you're feeling and then have that
conversation with
the rep where they identify some of the
emotions they're feeling because
that's where those conversations really
break down you say things like
oh i'm anxious this week or i'm angry
but it doesn't
when you say it you're like you know i
feel angry but it's not exactly how i'm
feeling it means that you
haven't identified the right emotion so
really improving your emotional literacy
is
is a really good way to help kind of
build that connection and have more
informed discussions with each other
yeah got it and from what you said there
it sounds like the the leader is opening
up first so actually saying look
rather than just the the general how are
you today how are you this week
they're actually saying i'm i'm feeling
this way and i think it might be because
of this and then that's encouraging the
the member of your team to open up
because they've they've shared first
right
yeah dude you're totally right and i
think sort of building on that
specifically within sales there's a lot
of there's a lot of trigger events that
happen whether it's like
losing a deal you were really counting
on or missing your target
just barely after a tough grind like
a lot of us sales leaders you know we
get anxious when we feel our reps kind
of feeling down feeling depressed
and when we feel anxious our default
mode is usually to quickly
jump into problem solving problem
solving problem solving like here's how
you get back on track here's
and we start proposing solutions and all
these different things and
that's really counterproductive to what
that rep needs
during that moment what they need is
they need to know that someone is
listening and someone understands that's
a really good opportunity for a leader
to say
hey like i noticed that you lost that
big deal and you invested three months
into trying to close it like
that's happened to me a bunch of times
during my career and this is how it's
made me feel and here's how i got past
it but
i'm here to listen and kind of just kind
of sort through how you're feeling first
and
if you want me to help kind of work with
you to put together a plan to rebound i
can help you with that too but
ultimately sharing that you care sharing
that you understand what they're going
through is the first step
yep such a such a crucial topic and i
like the
the fact that you you you're mentioning
that leaders are picking up when their
teams have perhaps lost a deal they've
been working on
for a long time which is probably gonna
be quite quite often the case an
enterprise selling where you're
working months on these these large
scale deals and not everything is going
to going to win like
especially in sales most of the time you
you lose more than you win
um depending on the size of your
pipeline so it's something we we've got
to get used to and
bringing this to a recent event i can
say for sure in january i set myself a
reasonably high target
and i didn't hit that until the last day
literally the very last working day of
the month and i was stressing out big
time
looking back it's like why did i stress
so much but when when you're in business
when you're in sales you you kind of set
yourself these high targets
for whatever reason whether it's you
need you want to do something personal
you want to do something for your family
or you want to go away somewhere or you
want to
set a bit aside for a house or whatever
you're planning to do with the funds
and the amount of stress you put on
yourself is insane i can say that
because i do it to myself i could give
myself a very very hard time
to hit these targets yeah and then if i
don't
i i honestly feel really down for for a
good day or so
um and the same when i know
a lot of sales sales trainers will say
um kind of
leave emotion out of the equation which
which is is
is something you perhaps should do at
stages but it's
easier said than done yeah no well i
i i actually disagree with like the the
statement that a lot of
is kind of advised like keep motions out
of sales it's like
no like that's not what we should be
doing because
when we like when we take emotion out of
sales
and we start focusing on this number
like it becomes meaningless and that's
how we become disconnected from work
like
emotions show like if we really feel
hurt after losing a big deal it means
that we really cared and that's
really important so it's not that we
need to
take emotions out of sales we need to
start learning how to better
cope with emotions and use them to
advantage and navigate these difficult
situations in a healthy way as opposed
to just
pushing them away because i don't know
about you i don't think i've
ever kind of been resilient or
persevered or been gritty
for something that i haven't been
emotionally connected to like
emotions is is why we're motivated to
keep working why are motivated to keep
selling
so if you are telling salespeople and
you're telling people on your team to
you know push those emotions away you're
actually being counterproductive and
you're going to have disengaged teams
going forward but it's interesting i'm
always curious to kind of hear like what
on sort of those tough months where
you've missed like what do you do in
those kind of one or two days to
kind of get hard reset and get yourself
ready for the next month because it's
it's hard sometimes in sales it's tough
isn't it i mean
casting on mine back i mean when i've
lost some of my bigger deals
um well this this was back when i was in
the office
i quite often pick up stuff and check it
depending on the size the deal
and depending on how how hard i'd worked
on it
i'd go pretty mad dude i'd be cussing
and swearing you stuck about for about
half an hour
and then realizing it's not the end of
the world and um
just just trying to relax and calm down
maybe going for a run maybe going to the
gym maybe taking the dog out whatever it
was
yeah to kind of um cast my mind
elsewhere
um but yeah i mean it'd be interesting
to know from your end jeff
what we can do when because not
everything is going to go our way in
business and sales as we know
um we're often going to lose more than
we win
so what some of the the things you
recommend we do to kind of overcome
these really stressful situations that
business owners that sales professionals
really do
put themselves under um to hit these
these targets
yeah so i think honestly i think one of
the best things you can do is
is and you know this is probably going
to sound foreign to a lot of sales
sales people and sales leaders but just
like we have
an objection handle to respond to
you know different objections that
buyers throw at us
we should really be equipping our teams
and equipping ourselves with
rejection handles or missing target
plans and handles and the reason why i
say this is because there's a lot of
research that shows
uh one one psychologist in particular
robert epstein he did
uh he did a massive kind of survey 30
000 people across
10 different countries and what he found
was the most effective way to lo
to reduce stress was for people to have
a plan
that's why to-do lists are really good
is if you feel can kind of think about
those
objections and those obstacles before
they happen they make you feel
in control which is really important to
your kind of mental health and your
well-being
but too often when we don't like to
acknowledge that failure happens in
sales we don't like to acknowledge that
rejection happens so
we've never really created a plan but
simply having a plan
that you can follow a step-by-step
process to say okay when i miss target
here are the
three or four things that i'm going to
do to make sure that i'm responding
logically and rationally rather than
emotionally
is absolutely critical going back to how
you responded to those situations it's
like yeah you responded with anger you
responded with like these different
things and
those are very emotional reactions but
instead like instead think about what if
you had kind of like
okay this negative event just happened
here is my step process of what i need
to do next and
for me one of the things that i always
recommend being step one in every kind
of whether it's a rejection handle or
plan to miss your target the first step
should always be
assuming positive intent so always
always assume positive intent
and the people and the engagements that
you interact with because when a deal
blows out
or we miss target we're usually missing
there's usually incomplete
information so we don't necessarily know
why someone isn't buying and we don't
necessarily know why they were rude on
the phone
sure and our brain absolutely hates that
it makes us feel out of control when
there's incomplete data
so what it does is it naturally starts
creating a story in our head our brains
love to find patterns
so it starts filling in these gaps and
knowledge but with things like
blaming the rep or sorry blaming the
person you're speaking to
or judging them being oh that person was
just such a such a such a mean person
such an
such an ass like such a jackass and we
start filling in those
pieces with very negative stories that
are going to carry over to our next call
make us just
change or not change our mindset towards
all these different things but when you
assume positive intent and you say
well maybe they were just doing their
best or maybe they were just anxious and
didn't know how to tell me that this
wasn't the right time for me
by staying in that positive intent
always assuming positive intent
you can change the story to make sure
that it's coming from a more
curious and more compassionate place to
start saying
okay well what did happen here what can
i learn from this and that's absolutely
critical to
responding and keeping that positive
positive mindset going forward
yeah really really like that and
definitely i'm i'm certainly guilty of
that
so like you say quite often well not not
always but sometimes when you're
speaking to prospects and you think a
deal is about to come in then he give
you a reason they might said they'd gone
for another vendor
or they've postponed it or they didn't
have the budget or whatever the reason
was
then the amount of times i've told
myself something in my head the reason
why they did it
when it's probably completely different
i mean they've probably got something
going on in their world that's far more
important than the deal we've been
discussing
and there's probably a lot of situations
out of our own control um
and then like you say all this head
trash you you tell yourself whereas you
could just flip it
so assume they're actually trying to
help you and that's probably going to
put you in a better place which which i
like
um and i would just sort of one thing i
would add to this and just for sales
people to think about as well is like
really start thinking about the
keeping the mental health of the buyer
in in mind when you're kind of having
your interactions like
if you've gone through a sales pitch and
you've brought up
this this massive blind spot or this
challenge that's going to cost them
x amount of dollars and they lose x
amount of time
like we do these things and if you think
about it that's a really
anxiety driven call to be after you get
off like a really good demo that's like
wow i got this really big problem to
solve
and then compound that by them having to
go and try and sell internally
with you know truck who may or may not
have sales experience themselves to try
and push this through
that's a really difficult situation for
anyone to be put in to be here's this
big bomb here's this big thing that's
gonna
you know impact our lives if we don't
change it now i have
i might not necessarily have the skills
to kind of influence the people
internally so
sales people really need to keep that in
mind and really kind of look at that as
you know how can i make them feel a
little more confident how can i really
equip the buyer internally to
sell more effectively whether it's
bringing me in on future calls but it's
acknowledging saying hey like at the end
of the demo hey i know this is a really
big ass but
you know i don't want you to feel
anxious when you're talking to your
peers internally like
this is my area of expertise like maybe
inclu
maybe there's a way to include beyond a
future call to make you feel more
comfortable and more confident bringing
this up so
it goes both ways not only think about
yourself but also think about the
things that you're doing to your buyer
that may or may not impact their mental
health as well
like that that's that's a pro little
sales tip there in terms of under
understanding the challenges that your
buyer may face
and acknowledging those telling them
that you acknowledge it
and i guess that will help up in terms
of building trust jeff it sounds like in
building that
earning their respect and perhaps even
helping you
when you inc or bump up your chances of
winning the deal
i know 100 and i think that's something
that i've had to learn as well just from
like the
conversations i have with organizations
is
when they reach out and they're saying
you know you know how do i have this
conversation it's very much
like they're new to this too like this
isn't like i'm still trying to figure
out they're still trying to figure it
out but it's just like
how do you collaborate more to
acknowledge that this is like a
sensitive topic that's
you know creates change and we don't
there's a lot of uncertainty around in
it but
you know how do we work on this together
and support each other going through
this and and that's been like a huge
thing for me to
at least from my own sales standpoint
it's like acknowledging that and kind of
bringing that to the forefront to kind
of
like you said build that trust to say
you know let's work on this together
rather than
you're on your own type of thing yeah
yeah i really like that
so you mentioned we should assume
positive intent when we when we get
declined by uh
our prospects by potential deals you
also mentioned those perhaps three to
four things
that we should set out as a plan with uh
if a deal doesn't go away if we don't
hit target if we don't hit the goal that
we're going for for that month for that
quarter for that year
are there any examples jeff of what
those three to four things could look
like
yeah so it's different for everybody
like you know self-care is very
personalized there's going to be people
that like going for runs there's going
to be people that absolutely hate going
for once there's going to be
people that like meditating there's
people that hate meditating and there's
other people that you know use therapy
as a way to
you know kind of get that mental fitness
that mental do that mental work with a
trainer
on a regular basis and some people
prefer to you know read books and go
through that on their own so
that's where it's kind of like a plan
needs to be custom built and unique to
you i guess to kind of build off
of that first first point um i would
learn this from ryan bailey he's doing
like a lot of really good stuff over at
a company called dream fuel
after you kind of assume positive intent
you want to say out loud best thing that
could have happened
it's a way to kind of help shut down
that stress result response but really
say it with like
confidence and consumption no matter
what happened best thing that should
that could have happened and what that
means is that you engage in another
sense you engage your hearing you're out
of your head
and it kind of like stops your brain
momentarily from jumping into that
negative mode be like wait best thing
that could happen like what does that
mean
and then you follow that with i now
learn i now know x or i just learned why
so change it to the focusing so if
someone blew out well i now know that i
need to focus on a different point of
contact for this learning for this
organization or
i just learned that you know the opening
of my pitch needs to be
a little stronger and i should probably
practice more so focusing on best thing
that could happen
followed by i just learned next or i now
know why it's a really good
kind of framework to work off of and
then finally sort of the last step
is is is that using an acronym called
halt
are you hungry are you angry are you
lonely are you tired
by going through this kind of quick
little checklist you want to kind of
have that built into your plan
so you can essentially see if any of
those basic
needs are not being met right now before
you carry on to your next deal your next
call your next meeting
make sure that you're not hungry you're
not tired you're not lonely you're not
angry
and really kind of do a quick
self-assessment to make sure that you're
in a good
kind of physical and head physical space
and good head space before continuing so
you want to do that little mental
checking
as well yeah level those points and
yeah i like the fact about saying it out
loud really so this is the best thing
that could have happened and this is
what i've learned from the deal
and like you say not every not every
project that you've perhaps lost at that
time
means that you've lost it forever so if
you can
remain upbeat if you can remain positive
and if you can
actually continue to be a useful
resource to
to your potential buyer what's to say
that they they may they'll come back to
you in the future
if you keep that relationship strong
rather than blowing off steam perhaps
even casting them down the phone or even
worse hanging up on them whatever it may
be
then you're just going to check your
chances down the drain right if you've
reacted in the moment
which is sometimes easier said than done
yeah i know you're you're absolutely
right and it's like
i think that's why that first step is so
important is it also just it keeps you
curious and it keeps you
compassionate rather than defensive
judgmental or trying to blame someone it
keeps that open mind to kind of keep
perspective on
reflecting on the situation and going
back to ck what
are some of the other kind of mini cues
that i may have missed or should
probably pick up on
what's telling a bigger story and you
know where
how can i problem solve this because
you're right it's like once we kind of
get emotional we get angry we kind of
lose that ability to problem solve and
think logically and
at that stage it's going to be very hard
to save that account or save that deal
from every closing in the future
yeah yeah i like it and in terms of
building up our resilience
jeff so as we as we've mentioned
throughout this throughout this episode
rejection is a big part of business big
part of sales especially
if you're an sdo if you're a rep that's
got a cold call to earn appointments
or you've got to do some form of cold
cold outreach then big part of your day
is
is going to be speaking to people and
having rejections until you eventually
get get those meetings booked
um what are some of the things that we
need to be aware of
some of the things that can perhaps help
us stay positive
throughout the our day-to-day where
we're constantly getting getting
rejections and
negative responses from our potential
buyers
yeah so i think the biggest thing so
there's like all sorts of different tips
and tricks and we'd probably need
three four hours to kind of go through
this conversation in
in depth but i think kind of like the
biggest thing that i think a lot of
sales people
kind of forget about is you really want
to like treat yourself like a corporate
athlete
that needs to show up and perform every
single day and just like an athlete
needs to kind of keep their body and
their mind in peak performance
every single day they sales people need
to do the same thing
keep their mind and body and peak
performance but with an athlete if you
think about it what they do
is they put their body into physical
strain and then they have followed that
by
a recovery period where their body can
rest recover and get built strength and
get stronger
so that's something that we're really
missing in sales quite frequently is
matching
a high mental strain day by not
providing a high mental recovery day
so that's where it's really important
have really strong boundaries with your
with your work
treating self-care like a daily
multivitamin that you take daily as
opposed to
once every week or once every two weeks
or how even once every once every month
you really want to build in those mental
recoveries every single day
and if you've had a very stressful day
with lots of rejection if you've
had a big presentation that had you
nervous or anxious
you've got to make sure that you have
your recovery periods built in like for
example with with this podcast like
doing podcast public speaking that still
makes me nervous it's outside my comfort
zone so after every podcast after every
presentation i do
on my calendar i literally have an hour
that's just
pure recovery to help me kind of reset
do some self cares do some meditation to
help me kind of reset before i go
forward because
if i start banging out these kind of
these
these these public speaking engagements
and these these
these different things outside my
comfort zone it's a very easy way for me
to burn out so
it's really important to kind of match
those high mental strain days with high
mental recovery days
i like that i really like the comparison
of the athlete and the fact that
i'm guilty this for sure i mean the
amount of times recently where i've just
banged out meeting after meeting or call
after cool and then looked at the time
and it was 2 nearly 3 p.m
and i thought i've not even had lunch
yet no wonder i'm starting to get a bit
agitated because i'm hungry for what i'm
probably thirsty
probably need to take a break from this
seat and staring at a screen
and uh back-to-back zoom cause that's
something i'm certainly guilty of
and she should definitely yeah yeah i
know you're you're tolerated and that's
the problem right it's like
when we're when we start kind of moving
into distress and our mental health
starts to suffer
what we need to do is often
not what we want to do so when we're
kind of
going back to back meetings what we're
going to want to do in that situation is
i just want to respond one more email i
just want to get this one more thing out
yeah when in fact what you need to do is
take a break
go for a 10-15 minute walk maybe do a
10-minute meditation
but in those situations what you need to
do is just like
so undesirable and this is the last
thing you want to do but it's
kind of building that awareness to say
determining between the difference of
what you want versus what you need and
really
kind of investing that little bit of
willpower into something you need
to start to stop that kind of downward
spiral to start
moving in the other direction yeah and i
guess it's almost making it a habit
right jeff so like i said i'm terrible
at it so i'm exactly what you described
on a tin there
so i'm like oh it's 3 p.m should
probably eat but if i did if i respond
to this one anymore if i do this one
more cool then i don't have to do it
later
and it might not drag on later when
really i know that if i took that break
if i had something to eat if i had a
drink maybe went for a walk with a dog
or whatever
i could do outside i'd probably feel a
lot more refreshed and i'd get a lot
more done when i was back at my desk and
back at the office
but it's keeping that in mind right it's
like keeping that to be like
like my it's being aware that my
performance of crafting this email it's
going to take me longer
it's going to be less effective i'm just
spinning my wheels
so it's really not helping me like and i
don't know if you've been in these
situations where you've been stuck on a
problem and you
actually listen to what your body needs
and you go for that walk
and all of a sudden you come to the
solution because you've given your your
your mind time to wander
and kind of brainstorm and like connect
thoughts together
so that's where it's really really
important to kind of make sure that
you're aware of what you need versus
what you want and
really trying as much as possible to say
i need to do this because it's going to
whatever i'm doing now what i want is
not going to be helping me
from a performance standpoint yeah and
it's
on on that note i mean the amount of
times i've i've had
ideas for things like content or what
i'm going to put on the podcast or the
youtube channel
whilst i've gone for a walk whilst i've
gone for a run whilst i'm away from
technology
it's unbelievable the ideas that just
seem to come to mind
and you've raised a good point about the
amount of times where we've perhaps
had a conflict with a customer or i've
had an agitated email from a potential
client
and then at the time i'm really heated
i'm really angry and then i think
i could reply to this email but i know
it's not going to come across right if i
type it now whilst in the heat of the
moment
and i've left it for a day come back
refresh in the morning my mindset was
completely different i realized the
issue isn't as bad as i thought
um so sometimes like you say it's just
taking that time and understanding that
that you need to need to have that break
or whatever it is to
take your mind off it yeah and that's
where having that plan is
is really effective because like you
know maybe
following your kind of natural process
right now maybe you kind of need to
sleep on it and you need that
you know 12 24 hours to kind of
cool down from it but maybe try next
time if you have that plan where you
have that
you know follow that positive intent you
focus on what you're learning you kind
of
immediately build in that you know 20
minute period where you get your heart
rate up and
do some skipping or go for a quick run
or take the dogs for a walk
maybe you can actually become more
resilient and bounce back from that
event
way quicker than 12 hours or 24 hours to
help you respond to that email a little
quicker
so that's kind of the stuff that i'm
talking about
brilliant stuff jeff is there anything
you want to wrap up with before we
before we close things off in terms of
any other things that we need to be
aware of right now especially in the
current environment with
a lot of people working from home or any
other ending notes you'd like to leave
with us
yeah like i think it's just i think it's
important to acknowledge that you know
this pandemic i think the silver lining
of all of it has it's really created a
unique moment in time where
people are more compassionate to each
other people are willing and
more are wanting to be more vulnerable
in the workplace and
it's important to kind of capitalize on
this moment because there's a lot of
people struggling working from home
we've all
experienced this really intense change
or change in our lives and as
workplaces and leaders we need to match
that intense strain
with the same intense intensity of
support
and the other thing i would say to that
is it's look like
you know this pandemic has been hard on
everyone and this has kind of
given us something to rally around and
like i said build all this compassion
but
think about mental health mental health
and people struggling with anxiety and
emotions and vulnerability that was
happening
before the pandemic took place it's
going to happen long after the pandemic
has stopped so this is a great
opportunity to use this
as momentum to start kind of having
these conversations around mental health
and sales and
health in the workplace in a more
productive and
a more supportive fashion so there's any
companies or sales leaders out there
that are kind of inspired by this
conversation just you know you can hit
me up at saleshealthclients.com and we
can hopefully
um put together a session or a five-week
program for for your sales team
brilliant jeff really appreciate what
you're doing and um really appreciate
you coming on the show and
and sharing um useful useful ideas with
both myself and everyone tuning in but
yeah please please do tell us you've
hinted on it then
um but what are the best channels the
best platforms where we can learn more
about yourself and how we can connect
with with yourself and your business
please
yeah uh so linkedin connect me on
linkedin if you if you like them
try to post four or five times a week
just kind of providing kind of little
snippets to help keep the conversation
going uh
with sales health alliance like the
website i created to create
it to be a resource first business
second so
there's roughly 100 pieces of content up
there just you know really tactical
tactical tangible things you can start
doing so you just need to kind of search
resilient mindset or how do i bounce
back from rejection and you'll usually
find some pretty good podcasts or
pieces or content that will help you so
check out there you can contact me via
that way or you can always just send me
an email jeff at saleshealthalliance.com
as well
so any any of that works really
appreciate it jeff
and we will put all those links on the
episode show notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thanks once again jeff we
were we really appreciate everyone
tuning in
so if you enjoy the show be sure to hit
subscribe for business growth show
wherever the heck you get your podcast
from
we interview business leaders each and
every week to provide actionable tips
across marketing
sales all to grow your business and we
shall catch you on the next episode